Okay in this video we are going to take
a look at setting up Spring Boot with
Cassandra. So Cassandra is a very popular in memory
database that is blazing fast and so
pretty common to use Spring with it and
in this we're going to take a look at
setting up a pretty simple Spring Boot
application. All the source code that
you're going to see in this video is
available on GitHub out of my repository
GitHub
springframeworkguru and the repository is
/spring-boot-cassandra-example just like I have on
the screen there so let's talk over to IntelliJ and start stepping
through this example. You can see here
I've set up a few properties for
Cassandra. Cassandra does work on off a
key space, it's kind of sort of like a
schema if you're coming from a
relational database. So I am calling my
keyspace guru_keyspace, localhost and port 9042 is fairly
standard and this line 8 the default
action create does not exist I was not
able to get that working properly but
I'll show you exactly how I did get it
working here in the Cassandra
configuration so this is a important
thing of getting things set up here for
us. So I am setting up a final key String
here and it was here on line 24 that I
got that CREATE_IF_NOT_EXISTS for us to
work for the schema objects. Now on line
29 this is where I actually create the
keyspace and I'm using Spring to do
this and on line 37 I'm also dropping
the keyspace when Spring stops and this
is a optional behavior you do not have
to create it or drop it but if we are
using more of a
permanent installation of Cassandra you
probably wouldn't need to do this at all
but I am doing it for testing, so I am
going to create a keyspace and also
create my domain objects on the fly
using this so but if you had a permanent
installation of Cassandra you might not
be doing this at all, but this is the
configuration for Cassandra and you can see also down on line 47 that's
another important one. I'm telling it
where the base packages are for the
entities so let's take a look at the
Entity so looks a lot like JPA. I am
giving it a table name of products and
pretty simple entity that we are working
with so it gets a UUID, a true UUID
object for the primary key that's going
to be registered inside of Cassandra and
then we have description, price and image
Url. Just a couple simple String and
then a BigDecimal for the price. Now
this is kind of a domain driven design
very simple CRUD operation that we are
talking about and to work with this I've
set up a CrudRepository
using Product and UUID and this is
right out of Spring data so I am using
Spring Data for Cassandra and by doing
that I only have to provide the Product
Repository interface and at runtime
Spring Data is going to provide the
runtime implementation of this for us so we
don't have to write all that code Spring
Data is going to be handling all the
repository functions and for us we just
need basic CRUD functions on this. Now in
my application I like to wrap that up in
a ProductService so I have a basic CRUD
interface so I'm going to be using with
my controllers remember if you're doing
Spring and dependency injection, always a
good habit to be coding to an interface
and we can come over take a look at the
ProductService implementation. You can
see there on line 20 I have declared the
ProductRepository and I am using
constructor based dependency injection
there on line 24 so I am taking in the
Spring Data provided instance of the
ProductRepository and then I also have
a type converter of ProductFormTo
Product. So I have a ProductForm in this
project which is a command object or
some people like to call it a backing
bean. So I've got that being injected to
do some simple
type conversions for us and you can see
I'm not going to step through each one
of these but like we have a Product
Repository delete method and so all
these are implemented to give us basic
CRUD operations for products. Now this
this service implementation gets
injected into a Spring MVC Controller,
normal Spring MVC Controller no big
mystery here at all using pretty
standard stuff as far as Request
Mapping and how I'm doing that the
posts and saves this is using Thymeleaf
so I am using Thymeleaf here so bringing
up an example here now I do have a whole
course on Thymeleaf and Spring so I'm
not going to dive into this too much I
also have some free content up on my
youtube channel around Thymeleaf and
Spring but this is a Thymeleaf template
that we're going to utilize. Now I am
going to go ahead and start this, so I'm
going to run this application and what
Spring is starting up I am running
Cassandra in Docker and so I've run up
right to the console, not running in the
background and you can see here we have
some chatter here about initializing the
keyspace, guru_ keyspace and products so
we're going to get some chatter out of
this let's take a look at the web
application, do a quick refresh here
there is no product to view. Let's go
ahead and create one and we'll just give
it a simple URL so there's no validation
going on here it's going to take it and
I got an error. Okay I've gone
ahead and did a little research on what
was going on here and the problem was is
that Cassandra does a time-based UUID.
So it kind of tell me right there ML
version and by default Spring Data is
going to be using a randomly generated
UUID which fails a validation of a
time based UUID so quick search on that
I'm setting it to a regular UUID here
for the Cassandra driver and that should
get us up and going again. I'm going to
restart things so
you know, stop Spring application come
over here, I'm stopping Cassandra and I
am running it via Docker in a container
so I'm going to bring that back up so if
you're not playing with Docker yet you
should be and I do have a class coming
out specifically on Docker. So a lot of
new stuff you can do with Docker so
Cassandra is almost back up and he is up
now so let's come back over to IntelliJ
and try this one more time go ahead
start the Spring Boot application and
that's going to come up pretty quick so
we can see that that is back up, now
let's go ahead and see if we can.
I'll do it refresh here, cancel that, I
don't want to repost so no products in
the database. Let's see if we go ahead
and create one now and there that was
the problem so we are able to get
products, let's go ahead and step through
this here's a list of products let's
edit him, just prove that we can edit and
we see that the values there are infact
changing. So not too much on the web
front-end here, pretty simple web
application but again to just a recap
what I changed there, was this Cassandra
type so there's a time based UUID and a
regular system-generated UUID. So
Cassandra is a little sensitive on that
I'm not going to get into the theory of
generating random UUIDs, obviously the
time-based one is probably going to be a
little bit more finite but I'm not
going to get into that, the biggest thing
was to set it up and regular you with the
time which is the default of
Cassandra so just as a quick recap of
the Cassandra configuration, a few
properties here, Spring Boot is going to
provide you a variety of properties but
you do want to set up your keyspace
your localhost port 9042
on line 8, and schema actually was not
getting to work until I got into the
Cassandra configuration and explicitly
set that on line 24 as a scheming action
to create if not exist and what this is
going to do just to recap, is if the
product table doesn't exist inside of
Cassandra, Spring Data is going to go
ahead and create it but in this way
we have Cassandra running in a Docker
container. Vanilla Alda box Cassandra no
configuration done to it. And Spring Boot
is or Spring Boot/ Spring Data JPA is
giving us everything that we need to
connect to Cassandra create our keyspace
and create our tables inside
Cassandra very much like it would do
with Hibernate. So pretty nice
setup here and again I'm here on line 38
just as a reminder this is dropping the
whole keyspace so something you
probably don't want in a production
system.
I imagine bad things could happen from
that but again this is just a plane test
and I am by no means an expert on
Cassandra but it is a very neat
technology and you can see how easy it
is to get Spring Data and Spring Boot
talking to Cassandra.